about.md, before:

---
layout: page-layout.njk
title: About Blogging
eleventyNavigation:
  key: About Blogging
  order: 2
---
<span class="dropcap">I</span>’ve been on Facebook and Twitter for a long time. I saw value in connecting with people through social media. But these platforms have become a cancer inside civil society. They are megaphones for lies. The allow hate to erode the foundations of decency. Rumors, innuendo, and conspiracy theories are allowed to stand on equal footing with the truth.

It has only become worse since the COVID-19 pandemic. I cannot in good conscience continue to support these platforms by using them. So I’ve initiated the cancellation of my accounts.

I had a blog – years ago, before work and family began to take up more time. It was a fun project and it gave me the opportunity to practice developing with WordPress. Blogging also exercised my writing skills. When I gave up my blog it was under the assumption that social media would provide a replacement outlet for my ideas and writing – without all the extra code. For a little while, it did.

Now I’ll go back to blogging.

This blog is going to be dedicated to interesting information. I should always be learning, so there should always be concepts, ideas, trivia or experiences for me to share.

Commit message:

updated about page; new post for jan 14 2022

about.md, after:

---
layout: page-layout.njk
title: About Blogging
eleventyNavigation:
  key: About Blogging
  order: 2
---
<span class="dropcap">W</span>ritten communication was never my strength. I was always best when there was a problem to solve that had a single correct answer. The "liberal arts" are where I need extra focus and the most practice in order to produce anything of a reasonable quality.

I occasionally use a journal to organize my thoughts, but a journal is an internal conversation. Writing a blog, like designing an interface, is communication – a conversation one has with an audience. A journal entry need only make sense to my future self. A blog post or a visual design needs to make sense to everyone else. Blogging helps me practice my written conversation skills, hopefully making me a better writer.

But what to write about? Communication requires having something to say. They say you should write what you know. For this project, I've decided to write about what I just learned.

This blog is dedicated to interesting information. I should always be learning, so there should always be concepts, ideas, trivia or experiences for me to share.
