---
title: "About Making the Impossible Possible"
date: 2025-07-06
excerpt: What I've learned about myself and what I can do.
---
<span class="dropcap">I</span> am not, and might never be a very strong cyclist. In the cycle club with which I ride, I am a C-level rider for the most part. 

But, is that true?

Something happened to me a couple of weeks ago that makes me question my opening statements. On one of the hottest days of the recently-started summer season, I decided to join a B- level ride. Join might be a strong word. I assumed – given my fitness level and the heat – I would start the ride with the group but quickly be dropped. It’s not a problem. I know the route and am comfortable enough on familiar roads to ride by myself.

For the first couple of miles of the ride, what I expected is what happened. The group pulled further and further away from me. But then one of the group's stronger riders held back, encouraged me to keep up, and gave me a little lesson in pacelining so that I could draft behind him and be a bit more efficient with the energy I had. I was hammering at what, for me, is near max effort, but this kind soul pulled me along for the first 9 miles of the 24 mile ride.

And then, as the group separated into the really fast riders and the slower core group. I was able to just barely hang on until near then end, when the heat had finally gotten to everyone and I was actually keeping up. It also helped that the worst of the heat broke, the sun was masked by clouds, and we even got a little rain.

By the time we pulled back into the parking lot at the end of the ride, I had managed to average a solid B-level pace of 16.3 miles/hour (mph) for 24 miles – 1.5 mph better than my previous best and about 3 mph faster than what, for me, is a typical speed. It was an all-out, maximum effort – my heart rate was in Zone 4 for almost all of the ride – but I did what I didn’t think I could do.

Of course, I had some help along the way (for which I am grateful). So, I assumed that this was a singular occurrence.

But then, on a solo ride the following week, I averaged 15.4 mph over 20 miles. And later that week on a quick, 7-mile warmup I averaged 14.1 mph. And today, on a 10 mile warm-up I averaged 15 mph.

Something changed after that ride, physically and mentally. Physically, my body has recalibrated to a higher level of work. And mentally some barriers have been broken down. Maybe I could be a strong cyclist. Maybe I'm not just a C-level rider.

<hr class="stripes">

Today I gave myself a real test. Something I've never done before, but a challenge that is in line with my goals. This autumn, I want to be able to ride a metric century. So today I challenged myself to (a) ride from home to the start of a club ride; then (b) lead the club ride; and finally (c) ride back home from the club ride. The club ride today was about 32 miles. I live about 10.5 from the start of the club ride. So I was looking at over 50 miles of riding. I've never really done more than 40 miles in a day, so this was no small challenge.

And I did it.

I am, of course, completely exhausted. I rode for 4 hours and it was nearly 90° by the time I was on my way back home. I made several rest stops and only averaged 12.6 mph over the whole ride. But I remember last year this is how I felt after riding 35 miles. Now it's 50 miles.

All of this has altered my perspective. The distance I rode today is about the same as from my home to Beacon, NY. I would have never thought of doing anything other than driving to Beacon (which I do occasionally). But now biking there is actually within the realm of the possible. And maybe, once I get clipless pedals put on my bike, I could think about joining some more B-level rides.

Well, maybe after another season of training. New things seem possible now, but I shouldn’t rush it.