---
title: "About How :focus-within Doesn't Quite Work in Safari"
date: 2023-02-02
excerpt: This seems to be a long-unaddressed issue.
---
<span class="dropcap">I</span>t has been a long, long time since I implemented drop-down menus for a website. In my last job, all the websites had them and there was well-used code that we applied to this problem. But that was in the *before times*. In 2023, how does one go about creating drop-down (fly-out, some say) menus for a website if you’re not automatically going to fall back on a framework or a library?

I remember, several years back, one of the developers I worked with attempted to do this with no/minimal JavaScript by using the `:focus-within` pseudo-class. At the time, this was a relatively new approach that was not supported in all cases. The attempt was abandoned in favor of our “tried-and-true” implementation, but I did not forget the attractiveness of a possible CSS-only solution. Today, with the pending need for dropdown menus on websites in my current job, I decided to give it another go.

My initial attempt was as shown in the CodePen below. The website for which I am developing this menu is based on Drupal, so the HTML for the menu is an unordered list of links inside a `<nav>` element. Drop-down menus are nested unordered lists. Clicking on a top level option places the focus on the link; CSS styles for the list item containing the link use the `:focus-within` pseudo-class to display the nested unordered list which is hidden by default.

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-default-tab="html,result" data-slug-hash="RwBEeda" data-user="aaronpinero" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/aaronpinero/pen/RwBEeda">
  CSS-Only Dropdown Menu with :focus-within (part 1)</a> by Aaron Pinero (<a href="https://codepen.io/aaronpinero">@aaronpinero</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

In Firefox, this simple implementation works fine. However, it fails in Safari, and I cannot figure out why. In Safari v16, if you open the developer tools and force the :focus-within state on the list item, the dropdown will appear. But either the link will not capture focus when clicked or the focus on the link does not trigger the :focus-within state on the list item.

There is a fix for this. If I add the attribute `tabindex="-1"` to the link, then everything functions correctly.

---

I wish that had been the end of the story.

Accessibility of this approach is a concern. I want to make sure that our website have accessible dropdown menus. A brief Google search resulted in a few articles describing how to create accessible dropdown menus:

- [Dropdown menu example](https://a11y-guidelines.orange.com/en/articles/dropdown-menu/) from Orange Digital Accessibility
- [CSS-Only Accessible Dropdown Navigation Menu](https://moderncss.dev/css-only-accessible-dropdown-navigation-menu/) by Stephanie Eckles
- [Accessible Dropdown Menus](https://codepen.io/srirachachacha/pen/VPKjjx) by Tristan Wilson

These examples of accessible dropdowns all use a `<button>` element as the trigger for the menu. As I understand it, a button is more semantically correct in this instance and provides a better user experience to users browsing with the help of various assistive technologies. So I replaced the link in my example with a button.

<p class="codepen" data-height="300" data-default-tab="html,result" data-slug-hash="xxJmmzp" data-user="aaronpinero" style="height: 300px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/aaronpinero/pen/xxJmmzp">
  CSS-Only Dropdown Menu with :focus-within (part 2)</a> by Aaron Pinero (<a href="https://codepen.io/aaronpinero">@aaronpinero</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://cpwebassets.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

Unfortunately, Safari once again has a problem. Here I thought a button element should be more agreeable for capturing focus and triggering the `:focus-within` state on the parent list item element. Instead, the situation is worse. I cannot get the button to show the dropdown in Safari, no matter what attributes I add.

For now, I am going to try using a link with the `tabindex="-1"` and `role="button"` attributes to see if that will provide the desired level of accessibility. However, it would be nice if Safari would simply handle the `:focus-within` state as well as Firefox does.

And no, I have not even tried Chrome yet. \*sigh\*