---
title: About Documentation Being Hard
date: 2019-07-07
excerpt: I don’t envy anyone who has the task, but I wish they did a better job.
location: The dining room table
---
Documentation is hard. I know this firsthand from trying to document my Tyfy framework and then the themed version of Bootstrap that I created using Tyfy. It must be a skill that some individuals are born with. Maybe it is honed through years of practice. Perhaps it requires the mind of someone who is a gifted teacher. It might depend on the ability to clearly articulate one’s thoughts and thought patterns using the written word. I don’t think I have these skills. I’m not the most gifted teacher. I was never a very good writer — I gave fits to one of my high school English teachers.

I am constantly running into bad documentation. Okay, maybe not “bad” but difficult for me to comprehend. See the Drupal documentation as an example. It has improved over the years but is still one of the reasons why I think Drupal is not as popular as WordPress. Drupal documentation is a mix of incomplete and opaque, requiring the reader to have experience as a programmer. Over time I’ve acquired a limited amount of that experience, so maybe that’s why I think it’s gotten better. But it still has a lot of holes and rough patches. There are places where people clearly haven’t put in the time. I understand that the work is done on a volunteer basis, but these oversights limit the adoption and popularity of the platform outside the hard-core enthusiasts who are not tripped up by the lack of clarity. They have the technical wherewhithal to power through.

The documentation for eleventy really got on my nerves today. First, the design is terrible. Headings in the documentation are set in some narrow, diminuative font that makes parsing pages of the documentation unnecessarily difficult. They need to take some cues from the Nunchucks documentation — a relative oasis of clarity. Eleventy is also new and simple. There are very few practical examples available and it’s not entirely clear where it would be best to utilize eleventy, your templating engine, or JavaScript to solve a technical problem. Something as simple as displaying the full text of the latest post on a page took an extraordinary amount of time to research. This seems like a pretty simple use case and my solution ultimately feels like a hack. I am left with the sense that eleventy can get you up and running quickly if your needs are really simple; beyond that, good luck. The documentation may or may not help you at all.

Good documentation takes time. I know I've not often put in the requisite time and effort, so it's hypocritical for me to ask others to do the same. But I know that others will be more likely to use the things I've built if I can provide good documentation. Likewise, everyone will be more happy to use tools like Drupal and Eleventy if the documentation improves. 