---
title: About 毽子
date: 2020-07-12
excerpt: And how it might be the perfect sort of stay-at-home activity.
---
My wife ordered something strange from Amazon a week or two ago. I have a hard time describing it. A small bunch of colorful feathers are all connected to a single point a weighted base. The feathers are about 5 or 6 inches long. The base is a stack of thin discs. Some of the discs are made of thin metal. Some are plastic. The very bottom one is textured rubber. When it is set on a table, it looks a little like a whimsical paperweight. She tells me it is a [毽子 (jiàn zi)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jianzi), which translated to English is “[shuttlecock](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shuttlecock)”. In this case, the name 毽子 is for both the object and the game with which it is played. The game is simple and will be instantly recognizeable to folks my age from back in college. It is the equivalent of playing hackey sack with a badminton birdie.

The object of 毽子, like hackey sack, is to keep the shuttlecock in the air by hitting it with your feet. My wife says she used to play this game when she was younger. From what I have read online, it is still popular today, with several East Asian and Western European countries playing the game at a professional, competitive level. The Vietnamese are apparently among the best at it.

The 毽子, unlike a ball or even a badminton birdie, is a relatively harmless object. It's not going to hurt or damage anything it hits – unless you were to get hit right in the eye with it. But still, it's pretty light and doesn't fly very fast. Being home all the time, it can be difficult to make room for physical activity. But 踢毽子 can be done with a minimal amount of space without worrying if you hit something near you. Yes, it would be better to play it outdoors. But I find I can practice effectively  in a bedroom. I'll be sweaty after 15 minutes or so of trying to kick it around the room.

Having been stuck at home for so long, it's nice to discover a new activity to help pass the time. 毽子 is a fun, inexpensive option.