---
title: About Pedestrian Fatalities in NYC
date: 2020-07-09
excerpt: Am I surprised it’s not worse than it is?
---
The New York Times will occasionally publish a brilliant multimedia article on their website. Recently, they had [this article about the possibility of a car-free Manhattan](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/09/opinion/ban-cars-manhattan-cities.html?action=click&module=Opinion&pgtype=Homepage). It combines the written prose with 3D animations and illustrations of what the city could look like if city planners didn’t automatically give priority to vehicular traffic.

One fact jumped out at me from the very beginning of the article. Apparently (I didn't check the statistics but I believe it) about 10 pedestrians are killed in traffic accidents every month in New York. From what I've seen when out an about (before COVID-19), that number is no surprise. I would regularly see people walking out into or standing in the street in defiance of oncoming traffic. People with their faces glued to their phones will continue walking without bothing to look up to see if it’s safe. Maybe I should be surprised the number isn’t higher.

But during the pandemic, the article says NYC recorded two months without a pedestrian fatality. Part of that would be because people were not going out as much. But there was also a major decrease in automobile traffic. Two months when no one walking was killed by a car. Wish it could be longer.

But there were some negative effects. The drop in traffic led to some witless behavior on the part of pedestrians. On my bike rides, I saw joggers running right down the middle of major avenues. Those folks are going to be in trouble when the traffic resumes.